um let's talk about some scars for a
second so a some scar is a ball of
undigested emotion and what I mean by
that is like generally speaking we have
experiences in life and we have some
capacity to digest emotions and we have
some capacity to not digest emotions and
then what happens as a result of like
undigested emotions is they kind of like
they continue to affect us so I'm gonna
give you guys okay thank you guys very
much for rating and thanks direct full
for the rate but I'm gonna keep talking
I'm gonna just plow for it cuz I it's
hard for me to engage with chat so I'm
gonna give you guys my classic example
to understand the some scar so let's say
um I don't know how do I do this chat in
slow mode I don't even know how to do
that okay I don't know how to use twitch
guys I'm a Boomer like absolutely boomer
millennial boomer so I'll give you guys
an example so let's say like I'm walking
a side of a four-year-old kid and let's
say that I walk I'm walking down the
street with my four-year-old and she
sees a dog and she goes out and Pat's
the dog and then the dog like gives her
a little nip so she starts to cry and
she gets like really really scared and
the first thing that happens in her mind
is she gets like very afraid right
that's the first emotional response and
that emotion sort of creates like she
has this ball of fear around a dog and
then I kind of check her out make sure
she's okay sort of calm her down a
little bit and then what happens is I I
take her like let's say there's an ice
cream store so I take her and get some
ice cream and then she's eating her ice
cream and after eating her ice cream she
feels way better and so like where did
that fear go like all of that fear that
she had seems to disappear and she is
completely happy she's laughing she's
eating her ice cream and then what
happens is she's walking down the street
and she sees a dog the next day and then
she starts to cry because when she sees
that dog all of that fear which had
lived within her the day before
re-emerges and she kind of had this
traumatic experience
right that's the way that we think about
trauma and so that fear like pops back
up and then she starts crying again and
then I have to calm her down and maybe
the next day if she sees another dog
she'll get she'll get re triggered so we
think about that as trauma and so that
that ball of undigested emotion is in
sanskrit the yogis called that' some
scar so let's pretend that i'm walking
down the street and i reach out to pet a
dog and it bites me so i too will feel
fear but there are other parts of my
mind like my intellect my
rationalization capability that step in
and are able to like help me metabolize
that emotion i don't need ice cream to
help me forget i can actually think
through stuff and as i think through
that stuff i start to think to myself oh
man like that was kind of stupid maybe i
shouldn't have you know talked to like
maybe I shouldn't have pet that dog
maybe I should ask people if they're
friendly it's okay like I was kind of a
stupid thing to do and about half an
hour later I feel fine and the next day
when I see a dog like I don't get
triggered I may get a little bit of an
emotional response and may get a little
bit of adrenaline may get a little bit
anxious but I'm good I don't get
triggered the same way that a
four-year-old does so what's the
difference between a four-year-old and
me it's because my mind is more well
developed and I'm able to metabolize
that emotion instead of distracting from
it and the more that I digest that
emotion the less the some scar exists
the more to the some scar gets dissolved
so what we saw with reckful today is
that he still has that some scar right
it doesn't take like I mean you have to
ask the right kind of question you have
to get to the some scar so like part of
what I do is like I've been trained in
this stuff so I sort of know how to ask
questions to get to the some scar and we
get to that some scar and there's that
five-year-old that's still like
traumatized by losing his brother and so
he can distract himself with ice cream
he can distract himself with photography
he can distract himself with video games
but that emotional block is still there
and that needs to be metabolized that
debuff is still there the debuff has to
be cleansed right you've got to heal
that ship
and the way that you cleanse it is by
first diagnosing it because let's
remember that good diagnosis precedes
good treatment so the first thing you
have to do is like understand that
that's what the problem is and that's
what we help direct full do today we
helped him diagnose it so now at least
he's got a clue like he thought that his
life was full of depression and his life
had no meaning and that's because it's
true in a sense he lost his meaning when
he was when he was like six like his
life lost meaning because that's what it
was his meaning was to go home and like
play games with his brothers and then
one of his brothers left forever and he
says that he's forgiven but I don't know
if he's fully forgiven to be honest I
think that the 30 year old reckful has
forgiven I don't know if the
six-year-old reckful has I'd be very
surprised if there wasn't like some part
of the the six year old or the ten year
old who still blames his brother I don't
doubt that the 30 year old one has but I
think that's tough tough worth worth
having another conversation about